


<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->
<!--  -->

What is the default before we make any changes?

lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 4 Jul 11  2022 /bin/sh -> dash





## Task 4

```bash
# compile call_shellcode.c
$gcc –o call_shellcode –z noexecstack –fstack-protector call_shellcode.c
# run the COMPILED program
./call_shellcode
# output -> Segmentation fault (core dumped)

# compile call_shellcode.c
gcc -o call_shellcode -z execstack -fstack-protector call_shellcode.c
# run the COMPILED program
./call_shellcode
# output: ->

# What am i expecting to see here?
# they both have Permission denied! is that correct?
# What is a root shell?
```


4. Is it possible to call a root shell by using this c program? Demonstrate how a root shell is
prompted by compiling and running call_shellcode.c.

Are we allowed to work with other people on the quiz or at least go over the exercises together?

I have alrady spent over 5 hours working on this today and I am ready to throw my hands in the air and give up because I am going out of my mind! I feel there are just too many unanswered questions and not enough bread crumbs to follow and I really need help.

I will give you one examplem, In task 4, "$" means you've grabbed a ___________shell, and "#" means you've grabbed a ___________ shell.

Where has any of this been mentioned? How are we suppose to research if we don't even know what questions to ask?

We are so disadvantaged in the lectures becuase there is no conversation





The command "sudo sysctl -w kernel.randomize_va_space=0" is used to disable Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) on a Unix-like system, specifically in the kernel's virtual memory subsystem.

ASLR is a security feature that randomizes the location of code and data in a process's address space, making it more difficult for an attacker to predict the location of vulnerable code or to execute a successful exploit. By default, ASLR is enabled on many Unix-like systems.

The "sudo" command is used to run the "sysctl" command with administrative privileges. "sysctl" is a command that allows you to view and modify kernel parameters in real-time.

In this case, the "-w" option is used to set the value of the "kernel.randomize_va_space" parameter to "0", which effectively disables ASLR. This means that the kernel will no longer randomize the location of code and data in a process's address space.

Disabling ASLR can be useful in some cases, such as when debugging an application or when running legacy software that is not compatible with ASLR. However, it also increases the risk of successful attacks against vulnerable code, as the attacker can now more easily predict the location of code and data in a process's address space.

It is important to use caution when disabling security features like ASLR, and only do so when necessary and with a clear understanding of the risks involved.
